
# GCP Go App deploy automation

## Assumptions

- Have idea of GCP and terraform.
- Have desired access to deploy resources
- Have ubuntu image in your project
- Enable Service Networking API [link](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/api/servicenetworking.googleapis.com/overview?)
- Your repo is private. If its public still it will work, but still you will have to specify github token

## Setup

### Setup Variables

- fetch GCP project ID and update it to `gcp_default_project_id` variable
- Set the unique GCS bucket name.
- decide on a zone where you would like to deploy resources.

### Setup Environment

- Generate github token with private repo access if your repo is private. And export it as below.
<br> OR <br>
 If you don't want to export as an env variable, durring terraform plan/apply terraform will prompt you to input it
  
```bash
export TF_VAR_github_token=<github token>
```

- Need to install Terraform **v0.14.6**. [link for specific version](https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.14.6/)
- Install packer which will be used to build consul image. [download](https://www.packer.io/downloads)

### Build Image

We will be using sample packerfile to create consule ubuntu image.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-google-consul
cd terraform-google-consul/examples/consul-image/
packer build -var 'project_id=<gcp-project-id>' -var 'zone=<gcp-zone>' consul.json
```

This build will take around 3m-3m30s.
Note the build output, there you will get image ID which get built by packer. Sample here
> ubuntu-18-image: A disk image was created: consul-ubuntu18-aaaaaa-bbbb-cccc-1111-222222222


### Update Terraform Variables

This step is for updating `variables.tf` file with proper values.

- Add the value of image ID which was generated by packer to variable 
- TODO:

### Deploy

```bash
terraform init
terraform apply
```

This full apply will take around 15m-17m.

## Setup Issuess

- if facing auth errors while running terraform plan

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```

- if you want to run and check using gcloud commands

```bash
gcloud auth login
```

- build go binary manually

```bash
wget https://golang.org/dl/go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
rm -rf /usr/local/go && tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin
go build deploy-gcp-go-api/api/bin/
```

- if you want to test SQL connection manually. Install postgres client

```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql-client
```

## Improvements Required

- Implement a backend to store state file.
